Welcome back to part two of drawing on images in part two.
We're going to show a simple example of writing text onto an image and we'll show you how you can create
your own custom polygons.
Let's jump over to the notebook and finish this off.
OK here we are at the notebook where we left off last time.
Now I'll show you how you can actually add in text.
So the way this works is you first have to decide on a font and you get to only choose fonts that are
built into CB2 and to be perfectly honest are not the best looking font in the world.
So if you start typing dot F O T and all caps and it tab you'll see the various thoughts that are available
to you and most of these actually look really similar.
So the simplest one is just font Hershey's simplex.
So let's we're going to choose and then we say C-v too.
And just like there was a rectangle and a circle command and a line command there is a text command.
And here the parameters go whatever image you want actually right on to the actual text you want to
write.
So in this case you precedent as a string we're going to say hello and then.
Oh R.G. which if you look at the documentation what that actually stands for is the bottom left corner
of the text string in the image.
So you can kind of think of the text going into a box and the bottom left corner of that text start
somewhere.
So where it's actually going to go will just have it go kind of towards the bottom right.
So that's going to be at x is equal to 10.
And let's say Why is it to 500.
So over here excuse me on the bottom left not bottom right.
So X. again kind of shifted off a little let's say 10 and then up a little let's say five hundred.
So say 10 and 500 and then we have to do is provide what font face you chose.
So we say font face is equal to that variable with a find earlier.
And then you have font scale.
Essentially how large you want the font to be.
So you can say scale four.
That's usually something you have to experiment with depending on the size of your image then color
if we want this pure white will just say 2 5 5 2 5 5 on all the color channels.
And then the other parameters we can define our thickness.
So I think you actually want the lines.
Let's go ahead and choose a thickness or three and then the final one is line type and the line type.
If you say CB2 dot line and hit tab you'll notice you have a couple of options here.
Usually people just choose line A.
And to be perfectly honest I'm not actually familiar with anyone that uses the foreign aid because that
usually then just gets overwritten if you decide on thicknesses higher than 4 and 8.
So just use line underscore AAA.
And then finally we'll say show the resulting blank image.
Well go ahead and run that.
And now we should see Hello over here where it's bottom left of that text box is white where we said
it was B 10 or Ezekial 10 and Weikel to 500.
So that's how you can write text.
Finally to finish this off I want to show you how you can write your own custom polygons So sometimes
you're gonna have to have a custom polygon to wrap around a particular shape.
Maybe you want it to wrap around a stop sign or something.
Or you actually want to create a triangle.
Things are actually built in like rectangles or circles are going to create a new blank image.
In order to draw this well say a blank image is equal to zeros and we'll say shape is equal to five
top five by three and we'll have the data type B integer which can say 32 bit.
And now I have this new blank image.
So the first step we need to do to actually draw the polygon is to decide on the vertices.
So what we do here is to say vertices an array.
And notice here how we're going to have parentheses.
And then you have essentially what is a list of pairs.
So each of these pairs that we're going to be creating So here we have three.
And in fact let's add in one more will add in one more pair.
So here we have four pairs.
Each of these is going to contain an x and y coordinate.
So if I want my first point Ezekial to 100 and y equal to 300.
So that would be Ezekial to 100 here.
And why is it 300 maybe around here or mouses.
Let's create a couple of more and you can kind of play around with these.
Keep in mind if you have courtesies that kind of don't make sense or cross over each other you make
it an error or you make it kind of a weird polygon.
So the next will be at 200 and then we'll save 400 300 and then we'll say 200 to 400.
And that's the first argument there and we need to make sure that these are passed in as integers and
not converted into floats.
So we'll say as the second argument inside of this array and p. 32 for the D type and if you want we
can say the type equal to.
OK so what are we doing here.
We just passed in an array and the survey has the outside set of braces or brackets right there.
And then it's a list of pairs for the x and y coordinates 100 300 200 to 200 200 400 300 and 200 400
and so on.
OK.
So those are all over the C's.
Go ahead and run that and their integer types.
And this is where it gets a little strange.
There's one final step.
If you look at our actual vertices and we were to print that out.
It looks actually like it's in the correct format but open C-v is actually really particular as far
as the dimensions wants it actually wants these in three dimensions.
So if you take a look at the shape here it's currently in a four by two and we need to reshape this
to be in another set of dimensions.
So what you do is once you create this array of points we're going to basically cast it into three dimensions
for those color channels and we're going to say vertices reshape and you're going to pretty much always
use the following shape you'll say negative 1 1 2 and we're going to say points is equal to this reshaping.
So what does that actually do.
Well let's compare.
If I take a look at the shape of vertices versus the shape of points what that has essentially done
is added a third dimension which is just one.
So it's keeping the same information just adding another set of braces.
And in fact if you check out what this looks like here we have vertices.
Notice that there's two brackets.
Well because CB2 requires everything in a certain shape.
If you take a look at the points it's going to look extremely similar except now there's another set
of braces for that third dimension.
That's essentially so the color channels actually make sense being transformed from two points into
three points so there's a point for each color channel.
OK so you'll always be able to use this reshape negative 1 1 and 2.
Don't worry too much about understanding this reshaping just know that you have to do it.
Otherwise open C-v is going to complain when you actually call C-v to Pollio lines.
So we say CB2 polyline as you pass in the blank image.
And then here's again where it gets a little strange as a second parameter you pass in a list of the
points array.
So it's kind of a two step process here.
You have to reshape those vertices and then you have to pass it in as a list.
So quite strange the formatting of CB2 polyline but that's just the way it is.
And then if you want it to be close off you just need to say is closed equal to true.
So if you want more information about the parameters you can always do shift.
But is close is basically a flag indicating whether the drawn pile lines are closed or not.
OK so we do want this closed and then we get to choose a color.
Let's go ahead.
Just make it red.
So say 100 percent on the red channel and then zero on the other two and then we'll say thickness is
equal to 5.
And then we'll just show that image you'll see him show.
Let's go ahead and show that blank image.
Run that.
And then we can see the polygon that we just created.
So let's go ahead and check if when the disease makes sense.
Here's one.
And it looks like it's at a 100 300 which happens to be the point we chose here 100 300.
Let's check that excellent 200 200.
Well if we say 200 and then go up to 200 here.
Well there we have it there is that point.
OK.
So that's the basics of writing text including your own custom polygons.
We won't really be creating our own custom polygons that often throughout the course but something we
will definitely be doing is trying rectangles around objects specifically when we're working with things
like object detection.
For example if you're trying to detect that there's a face and an image usually you draw a rectangle
around it.
So the ones you really want to be familiar with are up here where we have C-v to scroll up a little
bit rectangle.
This is the one you really have to know well and it's basically just passing the image top left corner
bottom right corner color and then thickness.
So if you understand this idea of CB2 rectangle you're pretty much good to go on trying to expand on
this in the next lecture.
We're going to discuss had actually draw with your mouse.
So everything so far has been static but often you want to interact with images or interact with video.
So we're going to be adding functionality with something called event choices which is a really cool
feature of open C-v that I'm excited to get to.
OK.
Do you have any questions posed to community forums.
If not we'll see you at the next lecture.